# Free-to-play vs. Pay-to-play

In TF2 there's a lot of gossiping about "F2P" players. Free-to-play, they mean. The game cost money 10 years ago when it first came out, and a bunch of us bought it for $10. Now they're the kids whining, "I was into that band before they were popular."

I might have eventually paid for it once I had a decent income, but shit, I would have been super happy playing this game for years without buying in. I think it's awesome they made it free to play. It's an awesome gaming model. They produced a documentary about Dota 2 called Free to Play.

Imagine that you're an old-school Team Fortress Classic player, and you learn that Valve is releasing TF2. NO way! Cool. And whoa, it's free-to-play? Whoa. No way. Cool.

Imagine your friend says, "Hey I'm playing this super fun game you should try it out with me." You arrive on the Steam store, unsure whether you want to invest money just to try out this game. Oh cool, it's free-to-play. Sure I'll try it.

Then you arrive in game, and all of the jackasses are being tiringly mean about people who didn't purchase the game. At least they code it in an acronym do you can ignore it as irrelevant jargon.

On the surface, these jackasses are the kids that snicker about someone wearing off-brand clothing. From the pov of the jackass, they seem themselves accusing those who didn't invest cash as not being as serious players.<sup>1</sup> But what cuts deeper is that they're insulting people's quantity of spending cash. "I have more money than you. Nah nah nah."

This is our community. You're acting like you're getting away with something, but in reality you're just shitting all over the ground you're stepping in. You jackasses are shitting where we eat. Quit it. Don't be that guy. Try treating the noobs like your little brother rather than the annoying neighbor boy tugging at your shirt sleeves. Shower them with your encouragement instead of your piss.

### <sup>1</sup>
This is likely true to a certain extent. It's no coincidence that the majority of hackers are people making multiple accounts, taking advantage of the free download. But the old school players know damn well that dealing with hackers was still an issue back then. The jackasses are just using it as a new weapon to insult and bully people. They're repulsively desperate for self-validation, and they're mean.
